Pasteur's old adage that "chance favors the prepared mind" emerged
from an era when data-driven discovery was done, fundamentally, by
people. When people, in particular domain-trained scientists, had the
time to look and think about the natural world, those with a deep
understanding of what science predicted were better equipped to find
that which it did not. Pasteur's quote has served as an admonition to
modern scientists, which I take to be an imperative for the
preparatory study and scholarship around broad scientific paradigms
that inform our daily work. But how does this imperative translate to
the coming era when more scientific data will be examined, mined, and
explored by machines than by people? In effect, the fundamental
question that I am trying to answer is this: in the context of
machine-based intelligence serving science, how do we prepare the
artificial mind for scientific discovery?

<p>

I plan to explore this question through astronomical survey data,
particularly imaging programs that observe the night's sky repeatably
acquiring data capable of detecting astronomical transients and
variable stars. Of course the acquisition of data (especially in a new
parameter space) is not a guarantee of scientific success:
instrumenting is not tantamount to recognition, which in turn does not
assure discovery, which is not necessarily lead to novel inference. To
this end, data-driven discovery is the surfacing of novel insights
from the ever-changing sky---my proposed methodological research
directions were discussed in the Future Research Direction of the
initial response. From a domain science perspective, I am particularly
motivated to uncover and study "theorized but not yet detected" events
as well as "unknown unknowns" (as opposed to discovery of more "known"
events.
