"Who's on first?" We're accustomed to being able to assume
key contextual information, but this Abbott & Costello routine hinges
on missed context about a player named Who. New technologies allow us
to perform inexpensive genome-wide measurements of living systems, but
using these data to understand how these systems work is challenging
because it's not clear what we can safely assume. To avoid finding
ourselves in a "Who's on first‚Äù" routine in biology, we must develop
approaches that learn key principles of living organisms from these
data. Right now anyone can download genome-wide measurements of more
than 1.5 million conditions. Our lab is developing algorithms that
peer into these data to understand both the context, i.e. the
environment, and cells' responses to it. Beyond developing methods
that discover general regulatory principles, we strive to put big data
analysis into the hands of all biologists. To make big data a key
resource for every biology lab we need to develop user friendly
interfaces for biologists, and we need to provide training for how to
use these capabilities. Our long-term goal is to simultaneously
improve how we integrate and understand big heterogeneous compendia of
biological data, while developing interfaces that help biologists
answer the questions that publicly available data indicate we should
be asking.
